[MUSIC]
In this lecture we'll start talking
about the Arduino Toolchain,
meaning that the sequence of commands and
code that has to get executed in order
to run your code on the Arduino.
So that means basically,
after you've written your code,
what happens to get that thing set up to
go, to actually execute on the Arduino.
So there are several steps involved and
we'll look under the hood
a little bit at those steps.
So, here's a picture of what happens when
you do verify and unload upload, rather.
So on the IDE you type in your code and
you click verify to compile that code or
you click upload to upload that code.
And this is a picture of the steps
involved inside that process.
So you can see at the left
side you've got code.
This can be one code file or
many code files that you start with.
We were just doing one code, but
you can have as many as you want.
Now first those code files
are all combined and transformed.
So there's this pre-processing step
right there that we're labeling
combine and transform.
Then the whole thing gets compiled.
The image gets linked and
we'll talk about what linking is,
it's where you merge with
the libraries that we use.
Then, the executable is
converted into a hex file and
that hex file is actually
uploaded to the board.
So, those steps if you look at
those steps that I have in blue,
the first steps combine and transform,
compile, link, hex file creation.
Those steps are what
happen when you verify.
When you click the verify button inside
the IDE, those steps are what occur.
You remember verify, it does the compile
and all the rest of the process, but
it does not upload to the board.
So, uploading to the board
happens when you click upload.
When you click upload, it does everything,
it does the compile steps, and
then it takes the file and
actually uploads it to the board.
So, remember uploading to the board
means actually taking that code,
the executable code and programming
into the flash on that RD node so
that it can start executing.
So, when you click upload
all these steps happen.
The code gets uploaded to the board and
then as soon as it gets uploaded which
might take you know say five seconds,
whatever it takes, as soon as it gets
uploaded to the board, it starts
executing right there onto your RD node.
So let's look at the first step.
The combine and transform step
is really a pre-processing step.
So all the files, all the program files,
are combined into one big file.
Now, this is assuming you wrote
more than one program file,
if you have multiple C files,
or C++ files.
Sketches rather that you want
to combine to one big file
you can combine them into one.
Also, theoretically if you wanted to,
you could write assembly code and
combine it at this stage too,
although we're not doing that but
that is actually possible to do.
So, they can get combined into
one big source code file.
Now a #include is added to
reference the Arduino libraries.
So, what this means is that remember
that in addition to our code,
the code that you write, the user code,
there are all these libraries,
these Arduino libraries that we're using
inside our code we're referencing.
So some of the commands that we use
like digital right, digital read,
these are commands that
we're going to use,
those are actually functions
that are in a library.
Those are not part of native C, C++.
Those are Arduino libraries.
So those libraries have to be
included into your big mess of code.
So hash includes are added.
You don't add those they
get added automatically.
And they include the library functions
that are used inside your code
into the big single source
file that's going to compile.
Also, function prototypes are added.
Now, we haven't covered function
prototypes, but we don't need to because
in Arduino programming, the user doesn't
have to deal with them directly.
In traditional C programming though, and
behind the scenes here, they have
to be function prototypes though.
Every function that's defined,
a prototype basically
tells you what the return type is for that
function and also what its arguments are.
So maybe it has two arguments which
are integers and it returns an integer,
and that has to be stated
in the function prototype.
So every function needs a prototype.
And this happens automatically
behind the scenes.
So when we're writing our code we don't
have to see it, but this combine and
transform step, it actually puts
in the prototypes for us, so
we don't have to see them.
Also a main is created.
So every C function or
C++ program has to have a main.
The main function is the function
where all execution starts.
Now if you remember,
in our sketches we don't have a main.
We have setup and we have loop.
But the compiler, the C compiler,
actually needs to see a main, so
the main is constructed, it is created
based on the setup in the loops.
So the setup and
the loop are combined to create a main and
the main function is defined
automatically behind the scenes.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]